METAGGA as an example， for a bulk (2d materials might be different!)

1. get the optimized geometry

2. create a folder for band structure calculation, prepare POSCAR(optimized geometry), POTCAR, INCAR(this should be INCAR for scf calculation)

3.execute vaspkit 303, you will get these files:

    PRIMCELL.vasp : the actual POSCAR that you should use in the following calculations, which is 
                  actually a geometry that you got after linear transformation to initial POSCAR, called standardized primtive cell

    HIGH_SYMMETRY_POINTS: high-symmetry points for standardized primitive cell

    KPATH.IN : the line-mode KPOINTS file for a standard band structure calculation for standardized primtive cell, constructed based on 
               information from HIGH_SYMMETRY_POINTS


3. cp PRIMCELL.vasp POSCAR, and check if the order of elements in POTCAR agrees with order in current POSCAR

4. execute vaspkit 251, you will enter interactive mode that requires you to input the parametes for band structure calculation, for example
    Monkhorst-Pack or Gamma Scheme, Kmesh-Resolution Value for SCF Calculation, Kmesh-Resolution Value along K-Path for Band Calculation

   You should read the summary part at the end of vaspkit report. If you are not satisfied with the resolution in generated files, you should
   execute vaspkit 251 again.

   The new KPOINTS file will be written, which has the format like this:
    --> header line
    --> number of all kpoints listed in KPOINTS file
    --> a string "Reciprocal lattice"
    --> several lines. each line is the direct coordinate for a kpoint in scf calculation with its weight
    --> several lines. each line is the direct coordinate for a kpoint in band structure calculation(i.e. kpoints along suggested k-path), with weight 0.

   now we could execute mpirun -np $number_of_cores vasp_std

5. now we already finished the calculation with new KPOINTS and standardized primtive cell. To get band structure data, we need to execute vaspkit 252
   three new files will be generated:   
      BAND.dat  BAND-REFORMATTED.dat  KLABELS

6. write python code to load BAND-REFORMATTED.dat and plot band structure

